Thanks for the extremely helpful analysis Steve and John
I m getting a pretty clear sense that this project isn t going anywhere as it is currently configured
Just to satisfy myself, though, let me throw out a couple of observations for the group to react to, along the lines of Steve s "However" section of his memo:1
Running this thing as a baseload unit won t work
The fuel cost is a killer
However, I keep thinking about the $200/mwh 4 Corners spot price someone mentioned on the phone
Is there enough volatility at 4 Corners to support a peaking merchant plant?
How often are those types of opportunities available, and could a power plant in Alb
capture that upside by transporting power to 4 Corners over PNMs system?
2
We have been assuming that the power plant should be a baseload plant
Someone on the phone last week had some numbers indicating that the DOE/DOD electric load at Kirtland had a fairly high load factor
I think we have all assumed further that the plant should run at a high load factor to sell surplus power into the grid (either at 4 Corners or, after N.M. elec
restructuring, into the Alb
area)
I just found the numbers I was remembering on the conf
call--1998 peak load was 63.6 mw, and total annual 1998 consumption was 334.5 million Kwh
By my lawyer-math, that is about a 60% load factor for DOE
If the DOE load is only 60% L.F., and the plant only generates surplus power when it can capture profit opportunities that arise when the market clearing price at 4 Corners or in Albuquerque exceeds some benchmark rate ($.05/Kwh?
$.10/Kwh?
higher?)
the plant might run at a 30-40% load factor on an annual basis
The question is can we reduce the capital cost significantly by building a peaker instead of a baseload unit?3
Could we get debt financing for a 140 mw plant that had a baseload demand charge contract for only 65 mw (i.e., DOE) but sold the rest of its output into the grid only when profit opportunities arose?
4
If the answer to 3. is no, would ENA backstop the debt financing by signing a demand charge contract for all surplus power over and above what the government needs?
At what price?
Based on its knowledge of volatility and profit opportunities currently available at 4 Corners, and future profit opportunities that will be available in Albuq
is that just a dumb bet, or would ENA get interested if someone else (i.e., DOE) split the risk and reward?
John, how much of the information in your analysis could be sanitized in a way that we could provide it to Dennis Langley?
If we pull the plug on the project, I d like to be in a position that we could let him in on some of our information on why the turbines we would use can t provide acceptable economics
I don t expect that we d want to disclose the swap value analysis in Steve s memo, however
Thanks again, and I d appreciate anyone s reaction to the above questions
